Add DTM Data Service now available in Public Preview (#4823)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/change-logs/application-enablement/dtm-data-services-Now-available-in-Preview.md

---

> date: "2026-06-15"

Reviewer: Does the date have to be updated? Can also be left empty and set automatically.

> date: "2026-06-15"

Author: ```suggestion
date: ""
```

title: "DTM Data Service now available in Public Previw"
product_area: "Application enablement & solutions"
change_type:
  - value: "change-feature-rollout"
    label: "Feature"
component:
  - value: "component-Tl88RYb4A"
    label: "Digital Twin Manager"
build_artifact:
  - value: "tc--dtm-data-service"
    label: "dtm"
ticket: "CTM-2600"
version: "1.0.0"
---
{{< c8y-admon-preview >}}
This feature is in Public Preview. It is not enabled by default and may be subject to change in future releases.
{{< /c8y-admon-preview >}}

> The DTM Data Service microservice processes data point links configured through the DTM [Data Points plugin](https://cumulocity.com/docs/dtm/asset-hierarchy/#datapoints) and automatically propagates incoming device measurements to the corresponding assets in the Digital Twin hierarchy via `c8y_LinkedSeries`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The DTM Data Service microservice processes data point links configured through the DTM [Data Points plugin](/dtm/asset-hierarchy/#datapoints) and automatically propagates incoming device measurements to the corresponding assets in the digital twin hierarchy via `c8y_LinkedSeries`.
```

> The DTM Data Service microservice processes data point links configured through the DTM [Data Points plugin](https://cumulocity.com/docs/dtm/asset-hierarchy/#datapoints) and automatically propagates incoming device measurements to the corresponding assets in the Digital Twin hierarchy via `c8y_LinkedSeries`.

Reviewer: Add a link to the user documentation?

Author: The link to the documentation is the same as the link above in the changelog. This is a ms related to that section. Also an update to the same page referring the ms is in progress in pull request 4828.

By transforming raw device measurements into structured asset-context data, the service enables operational data to be accessed and visualized directly from assets, powering asset-centric dashboards, analytics, smart rules, and business applications without requiring direct queries to individual devices.

> **Note:** For enabling DTM Data Service, tenant administrators must enable the `notification2.tenant.all.apis` tenant option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** To enable the DTM Data Service, tenant administrators must enable the `notification2.tenant.all.apis` tenant option.
```
